Although thyroid cancer is
not as common as other types,
the number of newly diagnosed
cases has been increasing.
This is attributable in part
to better diagnostic tools.
Women seem to be at particular risk
for reasons that are not yet clear.
Your thyroid gland is located
in your neck under your Adam’s apple.
It is shaped like a butterfly with one wing
or lobe on either side of the trachea,
which is your breathing tube.
It is highly vascularized,
meaning there are many blood vessels.
This is because the thyroid gland
produces hormones that are carried throughout
your body through your blood stream.
These hormones affect many aspects of
how your body functions,
such as your heart rate and metabolism.
Early on, thyroid cancer typically
does not cause symptoms.
But as it grows, it can cause
symptoms that include hoarseness,
coughing, and trouble swallowing.
If it grows large enough,
it can cause a visible lump on your neck.
If you have these symptoms,
see your doctor to investigate possible causes.